---
layout: post
published: false
title: Carbon Under Pressure
categories:
  - confursion
tags:
  - vignettes
  - furry
---

The late September sun streaked through the window blinds, throwing thin bands
of shadow onto the bedroom wall. Birds filled the air with competing calls,
while a gentle fog blanketed the ground. Autumn was approaching the Georgia
countryside, bringing a chill to the morning air. A passing deer stopped to perk
its ears, then sprinted off into a forest at a loud noise coming from the house.

An arm darted out from under the covers, flailing around for the screaming alarm
clock on the table. The peaceful silence didn't last long. On the other table, a
phone started dancing loudly across the wood. A second arm pounced on the noisy
rectangle, bringing it up to a pillow with a muffled hello.

<!--more-->

"Hellooooo!" came a voice from the other end. No response. "Fletchy! Wakey
wakey!"

"What, I'm up," grumbled the pillow.

"You don't sound like you're *up* up, silly!" sang the phone. "Come on, Fletch,
I want to check out that new cafe on Fifth!"

"All right, all right," the blanket groaned, "I'll meet you at the station."

"Okie dokie! See you there!" *Beep!*

James Fletcher threw the covers to one side and swung out over the bed, blinking
at the pale orange silhouette of bars on his wall. With a sigh, he shuffled over
to the closet and pulled open the doors. A small strip of lights weakly lit the
rack of simple shirts and pullovers, the hanging organizer of jeans, and the
assorted boxes lining the floor. A dark blue hooded sweater, a shirt picked at
random, and a pair of pants later, James closed the closet doors, and rubbed his
chin in the mirror. A scraggly brown beard had been struggling to grow for
weeks, despite growing much faster just a couple of years earlier. He adjusted
his glasses and tucked his shoulder-length hair into the sweater, pulling the
hood up over his head.

With a labored sigh, James Fletcher set out for another day's commute.

* * *

"So Joycey tells me she heard it runs in families and she's hoping to shift
next. My doctor told me they don't actually know but hey can you imagine? We
could be a whole group of kitties!"

James winced slightly at the squeal coming from his cat-form girlfriend, her
cherry red hair bouncing with excitement as they walked.

"That would be great, Trace," he said. "Wouldn't it be safer if Joyce
didn't turn furry, though?"

Trace frowned for a moment. "She really wants to, though. Maybe if they figure
out what starts it they could make her!"

"Just as long as it doesn't happen to me," James muttered.

"Are you jeaaalous?" Trace teased. James didn't say anything as the bus rolled
up to the stop. "Oh my god you aaare!"

"No I'm not jealous," he snapped, swiping a card on the fare pad, "I just don't
want to get caught up in all that while I'm still paying for school. Speaking of
which, what did I miss yesterday?"

They found a seat in the middle of the bus, with a good view all around. While
Trace chattered away about pointers and data structures, James absently observed
his fellow riders. The commute had become stranger ever since Union Aerospace
announced they'd accidentally released a furry plague. Here was a man in a sharp
suit with black fuzzy dog ears and a nose halfway to a muzzle. There in the
back, a couple growing antlers, trying to cuddle without poking out the other's
eye. Last week, he'd even seen a dragon, standing awkwardly to avoid hitting
anyone with her folded wings.

But today, James was fairly sure his girlfriend was the only full anthro on the
bus. Just four feet tall, with golden yellow fur, and an outrageously bushy tail
nearly as long as she was tall, Trace hadn't lost an ounce of her bubbly
personality. Such bright intensity was something James had trouble imagining.
The world often felt as gray as the autumn skies, as stifling as the cell bars
cast by his sunny window blinds. He *was* envious of his girlfriend the cat,
even if he couldn't quite say why.

Trace paused her monologue to stare at him, her eyes suddenly wider than normal.
He didn't notice, whatever it was, and she suppressed her excited gasp as best
as she could, resuming her summary of the day's classes.

* * *

James stretched over the park bench with a groan, the tedium of a school day
behind him. Trace and her still-human sister Joyce were giggling about
something, while a pale red tiger took up the seat next to him. Zack Tsarni had
been the first of their ancient circle of friends to shift, way back when news
of the Outbreak was still fresh. He and Joyce Lun started dating not too long
after, Joyce's penchant for all things furry smoothing the social blowback.

"Hey man, long day?" asked Zack, curling his tail into his lap.

"Too long. I don't want to see an asterisk ever again." James clapped his hands
over his face, rubbing deeply, itching at his chin. "Usually I can just sleep
through and pick it up by osmosis but it was, like, loud in there today. How
goes the drawing?"

Zack pulled out a sketchpad, flipping to a half-finished portrait of Joyce.

"Still good. Lucked out with these paws, huh?" He twirled a pencil through his
furred fingers with ease. "I bet you wouldn't have any trouble with a keyboard."

James grimaced. "Not me, you and Trace can have it. The last thing I need
is to lose class days to those furry doctors."

"Dude," Zack frowned, "you miss half the days anyway. At least you'd be *doing*
something with them." He shrugged and turned toward the two girls now chasing
each other in the open field, pencil softly grazing the paper. James sighed and
leaned backward over the bench.

Doing something with his days off meant streaming video games to a small
audience, he thought, not turning into one of the anthros. He already felt
nervous enough every time he accompanied Trace to the local Softpaws clinic,
visions of the charred remains of the Minneapolis branch the previous October
burned into his memory. Sure, Union Aerospace had stepped up security for their
spun-off anthro charity, but that didn't stop the crowds of rabid protesters.

"Hey," Zack's voice interrupted his train of thought, "are you feeling okay?
You're looking pale as hell." Something was itching at James' ears. He reached
up a hand to scratch them, then stopped cold.

Human ears aren't fuzzy.

A terrified curse slipped out of his mouth as he fumbled for his phone's front
camera.