---
title: Descent
published: true
categories: 
  - confursion
tags: 
  - furry
  - vignette
order: 0205
---

**...two years after first infection...**

The air is stale, a pungent mix of dust and mold that makes my nose twitch
behind the mask. Shadows ooze around every surface my light doesn't reach. A
year of rust and decay drips off the walls. The ceiling stands naked, barely
able to support the fixtures that cling to its remaining tiles. No sound but the
erratic blip of water in some far off corridor. The ceiling, like the walls,
like the shadows, like the dust, is merely the rotting skeleton of the once
great research facility I find myself now exploring.

Xenomics Laboratories.

Ground zero of the great anthropic shift.

<!--more-->

My ears strain to detect any noise apart from the standing water as I inch
through the hallway. A crackle of broken glass under my boots makes my fur stand
on end. I check the map on my phone again.

"How's it going down there?" comes a whisper, the monitors carefully strapped to
my ears turned low to avoid startling me.

"It's fine," I say quietly. Deep breath. "More glass, that's all."

"You're almost back to the atrium shaft. Another office and you'll be outside
the testing wing." The soft voice belongs to my red fox friend, Marina, serving
as mission control somewhere up on the surface.

I can see light around a corner ahead. A few more crinkling steps and the
hallway opens to reveal the huge circular opening in the middle of the facility.
The atrium, whose glass ceiling fell to the earth months ago, extends only a
floor or two above ground, but many floors below. Ferns and vines snake their
way down from the upper levels, and splotches of green algae and mold cake the
walls. The sky far above is gray, a recent rain accounting for the uneven drips
of water falling into a pool somewhere below. Former windows and balconies
overlook the shaft, a hallmark of the mad science labs Xenomics was clearly
imitating.

I don't dare look over the side to see how much further there is to fall. Across
the atrium, I see the desks and burned out elevators that mark the entrance to
the testing labs. With tremendous care, I make my way around the balcony, and
stand before the wooden doors.

Or what's left of them, anyway. The hinges are half rusted, half broken off, and
one door is partly shattered, while the other lays on the ground, its security
window cracked. It's covered in claw marks. A trail of red streaks leads out
from the hallway beyond, to the edge of the balcony. My ears snap to my
shoulders, and my heart shifts into overdrive.

"Are you okay?" comes Marina's gentle voice over the com.

Visions of snarling animals ripping and tearing their way out of the lab stream
through my head on rapid replay.

"Shizuka!" she says louder. I unclench my paws, commanding my mind to return to
reality. "Are you okay!"

"I'm all right," I say, shaking slightly. "The doors are torn off from the
inside. Clawed out, and there's a trail of blood." Deep breath. "Mari, some of
it ends at the shaft."

"Relax, honey," she coos, "there's nothing in there anymore. The hot labs would
have made sure of it."

"And we're sure it's safe for me to go in?"

"As sure as we can be. Maarten said anything in there would have been wiped out
during the evacuation. It's just you down there."

Hardly reassured, I check the map one more time. A few connecting rooms between
me and the lab where it all began. And a thin red line leading me in.

First, a ruined office. Papers strewn everywhere, a shredded path carved between
doors. More claw marks on a desk here. My ears release their tight grasp on my
shoulders and resume straining for noise. Rattling air ducts, redundant power
systems loyally operating over a year after their masters fled.

A memo catches my eye. Xenomics succeeds at cracking the genetic alterations to
prevent muscle atrophy in zero gee. Now how to introduce it into the existing
astronauts. Signed, some executive. Dated five years ago.

The distant hum of electricity saturates my hearing, a calming vibration. I
think back to the net memes from that time. "Born too early to go to Mars, born
just in time to breed the generation that will. Thanks Martin!"

I shuffle my way past a melted cubicle farm to the next room, the first of the
labs. Arcane formulas cover every dry-erasable surface. Tangles of glass snake
over every size and shape of science flask imaginable. Test tubes on every
counter. A finer example of "chemistry lab" can't imagine.

But then I see the walls. The few legible scribbles of notes that weave together
to remind me of the next chapter in Xenomics' work. Three years ago, the
breakthrough in editing that enabled them to put their miracle space genes into
an astronaut. Genetic payload, they called it. The exact mechanism was a
jealously guarded secret, but well understood to be invasive and expensive. It
didn't stop the press from simultaneously hailing the end of cancer and the
impending doom of humanity.

I spot an x-ray tacked to a broken lightboard. Carefully, I pluck it from the
wall, and toggle the light on my phone. Time has faded the print badly, but I
can just make out the remnants of a human hand.

I take some pictures of formulas and move on.

An airlock, smashed apart from the inside, mangled steel hopelessly grasping for
the doors. An official sign over the top. Hot Labs. Evacuate when alarm sounds.
A feebly lit red button on the far wall, under a sign reading PURGE.

A bloody handprint smeared down the wall below it, and the skeletal remains of
its artist.

I freeze again, unable to decide if the scientist the arm belonged to had died
after hitting the button, or before getting the chance.

It's now I realize I haven't heard from the surface.

"Marina?"

No answer.

"Marina!"

The hum of three phase power, and nothing more. A shudder runs across my body as
I check my phone. No signal. Not this far down.

I straighten myself up, adjusting the mask over my snout, and gingerly step
through the twisted airlock.

The hot labs, so named for their volatile work, and for the unique mechanism
that would sterilize their contents in the most dire of circumstances. For once,
I'm not in the dark. Lights are still on, this side of the airlock, although the
emergency power means they aren't terribly helpful. I make my way past another
chemistry set, into a side room with only one dim light inside. It's enough.

The room is full of cages. Small ones, big ones, every size in between. A human
sized hamster bottle and metal bowl sit inside each, long rusted. No smell
reaches my panicking nose. Most of the cages are open and vacant.

Some aren't.

My heart drops through my stomach, and I let out an involuntary, inhuman squeak
at the sight of a small pile of bones in the corner of one of the cages. Our
intelligence had indicated the hot labs were partially purged, too late to
prevent the plague from escaping, but we were sure no one had changed yet. The
first known case was Maarten van Holstruk, the eccentric billionaire at the head
of Union Aerospace, followed by a handful in the nearby town. After that, the
plague jumped a cross-country flight and started randomly turning people.

As I step back into the hot lab, I see reports that say otherwise. Xenomics knew
the furry plague had escaped, a few months before their CEO started to turn. Its
infectivity was absolutely unparallelled, covering North America within weeks.
By the time van Holstruk sprouted fur, Xenomics' remote divisions estimated the
plague had wrapped around the world. Anyone who hasn't been in a hermetic seal
for the past two years or so is infected. All that was left was for them to
figure out what was triggering the symptoms.

Another lab, more sickening reports. Having accepted their role as mad
scientists, the hot labs abandoned all sense of ethical trials, and began
inducing the plague's transformation. One scientist was hit with a mutated
serum, causing him to progress way past the anthropomorphic form I have, into a
feral state. A wild animal, rabid and mad. He wasn't the only one to be
contained in that prison of a closet. Xenomics was frantically seeking a cure,
but seemed only to find more and more efficient ways of pushing their subjects
into feralism.

The last room in my path. According to all our research, the serum we're looking
for, the vaccine produced in the last days of the company, would be here
somewhere. But on the several tables in the lab, there are only dead computers,
their screens all burned in. This one, the ghostly afterimage of a desktop with
too many icons. That one, a garbled command prompt. A brief bump to my spirits
as I come across one left staring at furry art.

And one with a clear readout of the last broadcast message. Subjects escaped
containment. Terminate any animal on sight. Evacuate the facility. Hot labs are
purging. Dated two years ago, almost to the day that Maarten van Holstruk
revealed the anthropic shift to the world.

One final door on the far wall, another airlock. But curiously, it's fully lit,
the inside a blinding, sterile white, a console nearby flickering in and out of
stability. I pull out my phone. The room beyond isn't on our map. I look around,
hoping to find some record of why there's a double secret lab here. At last, a
crumbling sticky note under a desk nearby, in faded pen. "Cure..."

I fumble with the console until a loud CLUNK announces the heavy door is open. I
swat away the million terrified thoughts coming to claim my sanity, and step
inside.

The console inside is just fine. I cycle the airlock, musing at the preservation
of the outer door. A soft hiss, another clunk, and the inner door pops open to
reveal another brightly lit, perfectly white room. I take one step into the
room.

A wave of emotions more intense than I've ever felt slams into me, and I stumble
into the door frame. A conflicting sensation overwhelms my mind, at once a
thousand terrified screams and a deafening silence. I grab my head and shake, my
ears limply flailing around me, batting against my body. And then it gets
quieter. These emotions aren't mine, I realize, to the profound astonishment of
some inner self. My breathing slows, my heart shifts back into first gear, as my
conscious mind reasserts its mental sovereignty. I open my eyes and take a
careful look behind the door.

A small pile of hay and a fountain of water in one corner. A bed made from a
small blanket. And on top of the blanket, shivering in terror, sits a small
rabbit, no taller than my arm. A deep, intense feeling of longing crosses my
heart, a sense of familiarity and need. I take a step closer, trying to project
calm.

Calm comes back. The bunny shivers a little less. I'm close enough to examine it
better. Its fur a golden brown, like the tan on my paws but several shades
richer. I realize it's sitting upright, like a small person, with its legs out
in front like a stuffed animal. *Her* legs out in front, a thought corrects me.
This poor thing has a name.

I untie my mask and let it fall around my neck, draping one ear over my
shoulder. That feeling of familiarity again, followed by the confirmation from
my mind that it didn't come from me. The little rabbit looks up at me, her eyes
bringing a sadness I'm sure does belong to me. I reach out a hand. She wraps
both paws around my arm.

"Cure her", I realize the note said, before time wiped it away. Cure whoever
this used to be of the advanced furry state she's been turned to. And they
couldn't. Whoever was running these hot labs tried to figure out how one got to
this stage in the first place, and their work got away from them before they
could finish.

*Don't leave me here.* I wasn't planning to. A confused spark waggles away in my
brain that this creature is empathic, then crashes into my memory of one of the
known symptoms of the transformation.

No anthro loses the ability to communicate.

I scoop the little bunny into my arms and stand, reaffixing the mask to my
snout. Back through the airlock curiously working after months abandoned.
Through the doomed labs and their failed experiments. Past the office where
crazed former humans tried desperately to escape. To the atrium shaft where they
found their release. The little one blinks, her nose twitching in time with mine
at reaching fresher air.

"Marina? You still with me?"

A muffled shout reaches my ears. "You had me scared hairless! I was this close
to coming down after you!"

"There's no cure down here," I sigh, "but someone got left behind."

A pause. "Who could *possibly* have been down there, Shizuka?"

I look down at the creature in my arms, her eyes wide. A name floats across my
mind.

"Rachel, her name was Rachel." I start to retrace my steps back to the entrance.
"She's awfully advanced, maybe a couple feet tall, isn't talking, although I
swear I can feel her emotions."

"Feral?"

"I don't think so," I reply, covering Rachel's head as I step under a dripping
tile. "Marina, our intel was wrong. Xenomics never made a vaccine. Rachel was in
like a vault at the back of the hot labs. Hermetic seal, automated food and
water delivery. I think they were trying to cure her, but only found better ways
to turn people feral."

Another pause, followed by a ragged inhale. "And they left her there?" comes
Marina's gentlest voice of disbelief and concern.

Up a second flight of stairs. I try not to look too hard into Rachel's eyes, the
loneliness pouring out of them. "Yeah. From day one, looked like."

A muttered German curse, followed by muffled shouts. I keep walking, past a
lobby overlooking the atrium shaft, past overstuffed chairs shredded by fungi
and feral alike, to the front doors. Beyond, a corporate helicopter, a gift from
Union Aerospace to our little village, and the red vixen glaring at a radio. Her
eyes widen as we approach.

I clamber aboard, and deposit the small bunny rabbit in Marina's arms as I
strap in. The door closes, and we take off for home.