---
title: Transgender Day of Visibility 2019
published: true
tags:
  - blog
image:
  feature: tdov2019.jpg
---

Today is the Transgender Day of Visibility. A day to remember how hard I fought
to be seen as myself. To say with absolute pride: I'm trans, and I'm still here.

<!--more-->

I do one of these every year, usually multiple times in the year for different
holidays and milestone anniversaries. Generally, they come with a recounting of
how long I've been on this journey. Four years since coming out in January of
2015, almost three years on hormone replacement from July of 2016, two and a
half years since being homeless that October. A whole year since I started my
job and moved into my apartment.

This year is a little different. I've been in stealth for a little over two
years now, gendered female by everyone I come across. I've been part of a
community of furries and trans men and women for a long time. From this perch, I
find myself often unwilling to share my anxieties with them. After all, I don't
particularly have to worry about being assaulted for being trans -- no one calls
me out. I don't have to worry about mismatching IDs -- they've been corrected
down to my birth certificate. I don't have to even worry about what to wear
every day -- turns out you can do a lot with a few tops and skirts.

And meanwhile I have friends from all over the trans experience. One does very
well for herself, and is accepting a six-figure position in another country. One
is getting back on her feet and agonizes over whether it's okay for her to use a
bathroom. One has his boyfriend moving in soon, a most adorable couple. One is
unsure if their feelings are leading them to embracing the trans label, or if
they belong somewhere else. And one I've known for over ten years, who knew me
when I was presenting female from the confines of the closet, who is almost
certain they want to transition, but are themselves climbing out from a pit of
familial oppression.

But we all gather together, to provide the comfort and validation we each need.
Whether that comes in the form of appraising one's voice, or throwing virtual
hugs across the internet, we are a family. When no one else is willing to see us
for who we are, we will see each other. Today is for us. Trans rights are human
rights. We deserve to be seen for who we are.

My name is Jessica Hart. I'm proud to be trans. Because I am still here.

**<i class="fa fa-transgender-alt"></i>**
