---
title: One Furry Morning
categories: [confursion]
tags: [vignettes, furry]
---

**...six months after first infection...**  
**...two weeks in...**

They aren't staring today, I think. The few humans on the platform are absorbed
in their phones, or studying the timetable for the hundredth time. It's the sort
of dreary morning that would keep anyone from paying attention.

*“A northbound Blue Line train is due in five minutes.”*

I flinch. Somehow I managed to stand directly under a speaker today. I pull my
jacket tighter, shielding my newly sensitive ears. A moment later, the calm
whisper of rain returns. My nose twitches with delight at the scent of
petrichor. There is no danger here, no matter what my instincts have begun to
proclaim.

My doctor warned me about mental effects a couple weeks ago, when I started to
turn. Medical science was still scrambling to understand the plague. No one
knows how many people are infected, or how many infected are ultimately going to
change. We only know two things, she told me. First, the process takes an
average of two to three weeks, not counting that poor guy who became a whale
over three months. Second, your form comes from your personality, and those
traits will get more pronounced.

A small consolation, I suppose, that I was already practically a rabbit before
all this.

<!--more-->

A raindrop splats gently on my snout, bringing my attention back to the present.
I rub my nose, pausing to observe once again that these are still my hands, even
if they're covered in muted tan fur.

My fur, I think again, meditating on how normal that feels now. My fur, which is
still chafing a little against my jacket. My fur, the lightest cream, that
finished covering my whole body last week. It was the first symptom, starting
from a little itchy patch on my chest. It was a sample of that fur that informed
my doctor I was to become a bunny, by whatever miracles the labs have begun
working. No known cure, but then none of us who are changing have expressed
interest in one. That makes a third and fourth common symptom, I guess. No one's
lost the ability to communicate, and no one wants to go back.

I'm drifting again. The sky is casting a gray pallor over the world, diffusing
the light. No shadows, no blinding spots. The roads are moistened to a mirror
shine, reflecting the reds and greens of an intersection below our overpass
station. The hush of passing wheels on puddles is easily lost in the equal sound
of rain. Unless, that is, you have ears as long as mine are now.

A faint screech of metal arrests my attention again. No one else on the platform
has reacted yet. They'll wait for the announcement to tell them what I already
know.

*“A northbound Blue Line train is arriving on track number one. Please stay well
behind the yellow line until the train has stopped.”*

Now the humans are looking around, scanning the horizon for our ride. One locks
eyes with me for just a moment, before quickly looking down at her feet in what
I could only describe as embarassment. For once, my overactive adrenaline
doesn't fire. I may be almost entirely covered up against the rain, but my face
definitely can't be mistaken for human anymore. That settled a few days ago.
Enough time has passed since the start of the plague that, although I'm the odd
one out in every group of people, I'm almost considered normal. Back then,
headlines were screaming about the coming invasion of the furries. It only
lasted maybe a month, when the rate of transformations increased enough for the
public to see we were still perfectly normal people.

We just have fur now.

A cold wind cuts across my body, followed swiftly by the iron dragon rounding
the corner into the station. It's a light train, of course, but the local
transit authority eagerly repainted it after one of the drivers turned scaly. I
carefully pull my ears out of the back of my jacket, giving myself a good shake
as the doors come to a halt in front of me. If it's this train, I say to myself,
I don't have to hide.

I take a seat next to a window, near the flexible middle of the cab. Rivulets of
water stream lazily down the glass. I can still hear the patter of rain on the
roof, a gift from my hearing I'm quite thankful for. Someone approaches from
behind, asking quietly if they can sit next to me. It's the human who saw me on
the platform, nervous as a leaf, buried in a hoodie. It's fine, I say, shuffling
slightly further into the corner to make space. I may have the anxious instincts
of a rabbit now, but I don't have to listen to them.

The doors close, trapping that intoxicating smell of rain inside. Somewhere in
the cab, I hear the chatter of relays coordinating the ballet of driving a
hundred ton train, the humming whine of drive motors kicking in. The shudder of
my seat, however, doesn't seem to be related to our departure.

“I-I really... I really like your ears.”

They perk slightly. I turn to thank her, and am greeted by the most brilliant
yellow slitted eyes, framed by eyebrows betraying the extreme apprehension
that's gripping my seatmate. The barest hint of whiskers are trying to poke
through her cheeks. Might as well try and defuse this before she shakes apart.

“Thank you! I grew them myself.” A tiny, adorable giggle escapes her. “My doctor
says I should be able to pick up Australia on these babies soon.”

Another giggle, softer, her eyes darting all over, torn between taking me in and
watching the rest of the cab for threats. Our fellow passengers are again too
absorbed in their little glass miracles to notice us. My neighbor is drawing
herself inward again, a question clawing its way past her reservations.

“Does it hurt?”

I take one of her shivering hands in mine, resting my other on top.

“Sometimes, yes. But it will be over before you know it, and you won't regret a
single moment.” She sniffles into her sleeve. “I'm a couple weeks in and
probably almost done, myself. Took my boss a day or two to come around but bunny
or not I can still do my job, right?”

“Right...”

A fractional lean towards me. I spot a hint of black trying to poke through her
collar. Her cat eyes are fixated on my hand, watching how the light plays over
my fur. A look of longing falls over her face, a soft sigh of relief at not
being alone in the world.

A few rows away, a man looks up from his phone at the route map, then down to
us. A smile, and a nod.

“What's your name, honey?” I ask, draping an arm and an ear around my neighbor,
pulling my own phone out to check the time.

“Luna,” she says, in a familiar tone of contentedness. “What's yours?”

I let the tiniest hint of pride enter my voice. Society might still be coming to
terms with what's happening to me and my new friend, but I wouldn't trade it for
the world.

“My name is Shizuka. And I'm a furry.”