---
layout: post
published: true
title: Foxfire
categories:
  - confursion
tags:
  - furry
  - story
order: 0412
---

Welcome to Hoptimism! We appreciate having your paper run a section about our
little sanctuary city, and I hope you find our accommodations to be adequate.
Can I get you anything before our interview? No? Straight to business then, I
can respect that.

Diana! You have the bar while I talk with our new friend. And have Jewel check
in on Shizuka, will you? *Danke schön.*

You wanted to hear about my drink, *ja?* Foxfire, the anthro ambrosia sweeping
the nation, so I have heard. Sold out in its first week, put Furhaven on the
map? No, all of that you know already. You wanted to find out about the fox
behind the fire.

That, my friend, is a longer tale.

<!--more-->

* * * * *

I am Marina Hasenkamp. I tend bar.

Forgive me, I don't mean to be so sly. What I mean is, I have had a passion for
mixing as long as I can remember. I had just finished bartending school when
Union Aerospace made their big reveal. Only a couple of weeks later, I started
turning into *this*, and you can imagine what that was like. A dozen bars turned
me away, some of them even polite enough to cite health codes. Eventually, I
found a little pub deep in the suburbs that took me in. Mario's, run by the
nicest human I ever met. He didn't get too much traffic, and let me work out of
sight in exchange for a spare room in his attached house.

Then came that big furry convention in May. *Gott,* that was a mess. Sure, the
humans attending it were good people. Sometimes it's hard to imagine the days
when the fur was just a costume. *Hundreds* of new anthros came out of that, do
you remember? The panic was not good. Our Faith stumbled across the pub around
that time, with a little too much color in her face. I guessed right away that
she was shifting. After we talked, she started bringing her friends around the
pub to hang out, including Cadance, and the Netron boys freshly stranded from
the con. Faith knew someone with some land and a huge cabin up in the Cascades,
and was floating the idea of inviting everyone out there. 

And that's how Furhaven started! Just a handful of random anthros looking for a
safe place away from the chaos and hostility of the city. Wild, huh?

The Softpaws charity was founded not long after, and they connected with us
right away. We got a big grant to buy out the land around the lodge, and I kept
working at Mario's as a sort of ambassador for our little community. We even got
a flag! Yeah, the paw in a hand, that was us. We picked up a bunch of people who
were happy to set up shop like it was a medieval village. A dragon with a
smithy, a beaver with his sawmill, you couldn't make up a better fit.

We couldn't have timed it better, too, with the election coming up. Devastating.
Seattle hardened against all that humanist nonsense, *Gott sei Dank.* I wasn't
able to convince Mario to move into the lodge with us. He was too old, he said,
too set in his ways to make that much further a step. He still let me run the
pub, though, and sent me out for supplies when his legs wouldn't cooperate.

And then I met Shizuka. Oh, my little *Karotte.* She always ate lunch in the
same place at one of those parks on the shore, away from humans. I remember her
ears standing straight up as I mentioned her to Cadance on the phone at least a
hundred feet away. We bonded quite easily. She needed a friend. While news of
the humanists kept getting darker, I whisked her away to Furhaven.

My friend, you will find that Foxfire isn't simply a creation of mine, some
offhand concoction I happened to come up with. It is an expression of my love
for that little rabbit, for our kind. It is a statement. You wanted the whole
story, *my* story, and I insist on telling it all.

Yes, Jewel, what do you need? *Sehr gut,* let them sleep. The bunnies need their
rest. Has Trace knocked anyone out tonight? Ha! That must have been a sight. No,
thank you, I'm fine. Do you? Some water for our friend here. Thank you.

That was Jewel Wolfe, our innkeeper. Yes, that is her name, and she chose it
well. I don't think she'll be very interested; she keeps to herself. We all do.
And for good reason, you understand. Now, where was I?

* * * * *

Furhaven grew quickly in its second year, thanks mostly to Ms. Doe's articles
and our connection to Maarten van Holstruk. Yes, *that* Jane Doe and yes, *that*
Patient Zero. The UAC was happy to help keep us off the radar for as long as we
needed to establish ourselves. That was when we built the greenhouses and
started really playing with Softpaws' latest gene therapies. The Iron Dragon
rail connection came online in the spring, which brought us supplies. We had a
nice little commune going. We were picking up rumors of other communes starting
around the country, and Softpaws was out there giving them support. Cadance and
Faith wanted to expand Furhaven to be a proper sanctuary town, a true home for
anthros in need of one.

Maarten wanted Jane, Shizuka, and I to accompany him on a tour of the Softpaws
clinics nationwide, especially those supporting communes. I'm not sure why he
picked us, Jane obviously for her journalism, but that's what we did. We sent
several people back here as we went, including Ms. Wolfe that October. Yeah,
right after those registration bills in the South. If those had passed, I don't
know where we would be.

One of Ms. Wolfe's friends, Joyce Lun, hadn't been chosen to shift, although her
sister, Trace, was. That's the four-foot golden cat you saw downstairs, yes the
one who threw out a six-foot tiger tonight. It's a highlight of any night,
really. Anyway, Joyce was feeling rather uncomfortable being the only human
among everyone she knew. Our specialists at Softpaws thought it should be
possible to trigger the anthropic shift, since it seemed everyone was equally
susceptible.

That's when we traveled to Xenomics Labs in Tacoma. Shizuka volunteered to go
down, bless her heart. Her senses are much sharper than just about anyone here,
but so is her sensitivity. We were hoping to find anything Xenomics knew about
the shift, to develop a trigger for Ms. Lun and potentially a vaccine for
humans. Instead, well, your own paper did a spread, didn't it? "Xenomics Caused
Furry Plague," that was your headline. I certainly hope a lot has changed in the
last few years. Yes, the Labs were the epicenter of the outbreak, their genetic
payload virus breaking containment just before UAC revealed Maarten to the
world. And yes, they had been running tests on their own scientists to
understand it. Shizuka didn't find a trigger or a cure down there, but rather an
early experiment gone wrong. That's Rachel, you might have seen her perched on
the counter downstairs. We're not sure how old she was when she turned into so
small a rabbit, but we know she's not completely feral. Shizuka swears the
little one is empathic. The rest of us benefit from her writing on a notepad.
It's entirely possible that Rachel is truly the first anthro. I don't think
we'll ever know. No, you may not interview her.

Joyce got her wish, in a way, when we returned. Softpaws worked for a month on a
trigger, but the best they could do was give the girl the ears, tail, and claws
of a cat. And severe heartburn for a week. She and Zack Tsarni run the
coffeeshop across town. Oh yes, their BluJay strain is phenomenal. Softpaws
isn't working on a cure or a trigger anymore. They've concluded it's impossible.
Fine for us, we're already living our best selves. And there's still some new
cases every month out there. Who knows, maybe it'll civilize you one day.

Hoptimism was Shizuka's idea. She wanted to recreate the pub where we got
together, with an attached inn for anthros in need of a safe place to stay. I'm
sure she also wanted a place to settle into with Rachel and I. So, we took the
rest of the summer and built up this tavern. Everyone in town chipped in, and
I'm proud to say we didn't import so much as a nail to build this place. Some
ingredients, sure. But that's to be expected. Jewel and Trace signed on to run
the inn, and that wolf is very efficient at tailoring the rooms for any species
that comes through the door. Trace is a natural bouncer. Diana came to learn the
craft from me -- she's the other fox, the one who dyes herself blue. Shizuka and
I run the place. Rather, I run the bar, and she's the mastermind behind our
food. At first, we made regular trips on the Iron Dragon to Seattle for
supplies, while we waited for the next harvest.

Your impatience is not necessary, friend. I said, "at first," as to indicate that
we don't any longer. True, it is mostly because we source our ingredients from
Gateway Valley now. That is not the reason *meine Karotte* avoids your kind.

* * * * *

Are you familiar with the humanist movement? It has only been two years since
its peak, and yet so many have already forgotten. Do you remember their battle
cry?

"If they want to be animals, then we can hunt them like animals."

That started as a backlash to the furry fandoms, back even before the anthropic
shift. It was supposed to be ironic internet humor, the sort of hyperbolic
*Kindlichkeit* at a culture they couldn't understand. So many things on the
internet were like that. There wasn't ever an actual attempt to hunt a furry
fan, even when they were in costume and fully acting out their persona.

Of course, then it stopped being a costume for us. And the politics coalesced
around open aggression against any minority you choose. Seattle was safe, you
had enough new dogs and wolves in the police to demand solidarity, but we were
the exception. The attacks on Softpaws clinics were only the beginning. By the
time we came back from Xenomics, at least two communes in the Rockies were
burned down. Your paper reported them, too. "Anthro Communes Destroyed by Mob,"
it said. The stories from anthros crossing our inn would break your heart.

And then we took a trip to Mario's.

* * * * *

I had just finished a batch of the mead that would become Foxfire. Every anthro
who tried it described it as the best brew they'd ever had. The handful of
humans here agreed it's a good drink, but not nearly the same reaction. I wanted
to get it just right, to appeal to everyone I could, so I packed up a small cask
and took Shizuka out on a date.

The November air was just as sharp as the day I offered Furhaven to Shizuka, two
years earlier. We had just stepped off the train a few blocks from the pub,
bundled up against the cold. She was wearing the hat I gave her, which covered
up her long ears. We were talking about names for my mead as we walked,
rejecting each one for not being good enough. A dense blanket of dark grey
clouds had settled somewhere around bird's height. Snow hadn't yet fallen. We
were just another block around the corner when Shizuka froze and tugged on my
coat, her nose poking at the air. We rounded the corner, and the smell hit me,
too.

Ashes. The thick aroma of charcoal.

Mario's pub was gone. A jagged black mess of timbers and brick stood on its
corner opposite us. Humans walked by without a glance, as though this had been
normal for some time. My heart fell through my stomach, and I followed Shizuka
in a sudden run towards the ruin. It wasn't any better up close. The brick
rowhouse next door seemed mostly intact, if badly charred, but the pub was a
complete loss. I could just make out the chunks of black that would have
belonged to the bar, and the long wall behind separating the kitchen. The stairs
into the rowhouse were still intact, and I gingerly stepped onto them, leaving
Shizuka on the sidewalk. I really shouldn't have.

It turned out the house was only intact from the outside. The inside looked like
a rabid blender had been set loose. I moved from room to room, looking for any
sign of my former mentor. Windows not visible from the street were all smashed
out. All the furniture had been destroyed. At last, I came to my old room. It
had received the same treatment, a thorough demolition from fire and time. And
that was about when I heard a cry from outside.

See, while I was up there, Shizuka had been keeping watch on the ruins,
listening for any sounds from me inside. Her hat, however, limited her awareness
of the street. From behind, with the coat and hat covering her ears, she could
look rather human. And so she did, until a group of young men happened upon her.
I burst back into the remains of the pub, just in time to see my girlfriend on
the ground protecting her head, and one of the four boys brandishing a bat.

Needless to say, four on one isn't the greatest odds, but the handy thing about
adrenaline is you find yourself unable to calculate odds. There's also the
element of surprise, as I'm sure these humans weren't expecting a vixen their
size to come barreling out of the ashes with claws and teeth bared. The few
other humans on the street weren't completely useless, either. Someone had
called police, and a couple men were closing in to assist.

We won, if you're wondering. I gave bat boy a good slash across the face. The
other three were similarly subdued, either by fear of me or the humans who came
to help. Police and an ambulance arrived a few minutes later, a huge German
shepherd and his human partner taking custody of the boys. As for *meine
Karotte,* her injuries were mostly superficial, just bruises around her body.
Her demeanor, however, was much worse off. She was flinching at every touch from
the human paramedic attending to her.

I remember very clearly what she said to me, as I took her into my arms in the
back of that ambulance. She said, "I thought the fire came back for me, and it
did." My brain, addled as it is, picked that moment to remember I still had a
cask of mead in my bag, brought along for the approval of my old boss. There was
some paperwork to be done, and a small fine to pay on my part for reckless
discharge of claws, but the officers agreed to allow us to pour a small glass
each of my miracle non-alcoholic mead. Foxfire, I would call it.

* * * * *

Two years later, my little brew is the second-hottest name in anthro beverages,
right behind Tsarni's coffee. And you were sent to find out more. I've been
short with you on occasion tonight, so let me wrap up what comes after I gave
the fire its name.

Shizuka doesn't talk to humans anymore. She doesn't leave the valley without me
or Jewel or one of the more muscular anthros here. Her baking still improves
every season. And if you're an anthro, or at least in a furry costume, she'll
warm right up. But that event took away the last bit of trust she had for your
species. I can't tell you what it's like to watch the light go from her eyes
when a human comes through the door, even when they're one of ours. My tavern is
always open to all. I hope one day my little carrot will be too.

Ah, Trace, I was just about to ask for you. Please escort our friend back to the
Dragon, will you?. I think they have all they need. If you should ever find
yourself in the valley again, please do stop by. My Foxfire is sold all over the
country. But if you want the real thing, you will find it only here, where the
fire comes from the fox.
