---
layout: post
published: false
title: untitled
categories:
  - confursion
tags:
  - furry
  - story
order: 0506.21
---

*Good evening. For NPR News, I'm Sean Capelli.*

*The House has come to a decision on the Anthro Affirmation Act, voting late
Thursday night to pass the bill. The Act aims to establish a federal standard
for identifying anthropic individuals, those affected by the so-called "furry
plague" released by Xenomics Laboratories four years ago.*

<!--more-->

*Supporters call the Anthro Affirmation Act a necessary enhancement to existing
systems, citing the wider variety of identifying features that aren't accounted
for. Jacob Delaney, speaking for the Freedom Institute, called it a "reasonable
measure to provide for all citizens."*

*"We want to ensure that these individuals don't fall through the cracks of our
existing infrastructure. A wolf person with a certain pattern of striations
could be mistaken for another when their driver's license only says they have
blue eyes. This bill is an effort to patch those holes, and assist the anthro
community in affirming their identities."*

*Opponents, however, call the bill a "registration act", fearing it could be
used to make the anthro community into second-class citizens. Maarten van
Holstruk, former chief executive of the Union Aerospace Corporation, issued a
statement condemning the act.*

*"Congress has tried to put a positive spin on this bastardization of the
Anthro Affirmation Act, but make no mistake. This is a smokescreen for humanist
ideology, nothing more. Anthros are not wild animals to be tagged and tracked.
We are American citizens, and deserve the same rights we enjoyed before our
transformations."*

*The Anthro Affirmation Act now moves to the Senate, which is set to begin
debates next week. Sean Capelli, NPR News, Washington.*

* * * * *

"Turn it off."

Marina Hasenkamp growled, glaring at the radio on the far end of the tavern
hall. The red fox set down the mug she'd been furiously scrubbing for several
minutes. Across the room, a short golden cat with a fluffy tail as tall as
herself hopped onto a table to reach the dial, silencing the river of bad news.
The nearby patrons nodded in approval.

"No chance," one said. "That's political suicide, Senate will tank it. They
might as well hand out little pink triangles if they don't."

"God, I hope so," sighed another, "especially with the elections coming up."

"Those *Schweine* corrupted the Affirmation Act," Marina fumed. "They'll pretend
it's for our benefit right up until they distribute our names to the humanists.
Then it gets dark, boys." She glanced at a swinging door behind her bar, then
grabbed another glass and began polishing.

Beyond the door, in the warm kitchen of the Hoptimism Inn and Tavern, a short
rabbit anthro firmly pressed her hands into a mound of dough on the counter.
Shizuka Valenheart had no interest in having to entertain the outside world
tonight. For now, her universe consisted entirely of the loaf of bread before
her. Knead, turn, knead. A rogue bubble marring that waxy surface. Knead, turn,
knead again.

The heavy front door creaked open, letting a burst of humid August air enter the
hall. A tall, grey snow leopard padded through, closing the door gently behind
him.

"Ah, *Herr* Fernandes," Marina called from the bar, "Victor, what brings you to
our humble establishment?"

Victor groaned. "Politics. Just got out of Softpaws; Cadey and I were meeting
with Holstruk and a pile of UAC suits all day. You got any fire back there?"

Marina played with one of her many bracelets to produce a small key, which she
used to unlock a cupboard below the well while the leopard took up a stool. A
moment later, she produced two small glasses and a squat bottle of her legendary
Foxfire mead.

"I always have some for family," she said, pouring the two shots. They clinked
the glasses together, then drank. Victor's shoulders immediately dropped, the
weight of a long day visibly lifted.

"Don't ever change that recipe, Foxy," he said, closing his eyes. The vixen
smiled and refilled his glass. "How is business?"

"We are doing well." Marina surveyed the dozens of bottles on display behind
her, each less than half full. "That fool from the *Times* was good for
something, I suppose. I have not seen my supplies this low since we opened." She
frowned. "Of course, I have not had to serve so many humans, either."

Victor shrugged. "Part and parcel, Hasenkamp. BluJay made us a tourist
destination for the church of Starbucks, but I didn't see too much trouble over
the spring. And besides," he jabbed a thumb over his shoulder at the golden cat
with the giant tail, "you got the best bouncer in town."

Marina laughed. "No one messes with our Trace." The cat turned and waved, cherry
red hair flailing everywhere, before skipping to the archway leading to the inn.

The leopard drained his second shot of Foxfire. "Too right. That girl is *scary*
strong." Marina drank her glass, then refilled them both. "Really, I feel better
about you girls with Trace here. One less family to worry over."

"UAC is shrinking again?" Victor nodded, prompting Marina to drop her voice to a
harsh whisper. "*Verdammt noch mal,* what in the hell for?!"

"Beats me. They've been circling the wagons since Maarten got bumped off the
board. Velvet tells me we've still got the red phone for Softpaws, at least.
That was part of our meeting today, but I'll have to tell you later."

They took their third shots, then a fourth, then steered the discussion towards
lighter matters. Trace returned from the inn a few minutes later, resuming her
skipping patrol around the cozy tavern hall. Marina sounded last call. Patrons
slowly finished their drinks, depositing their empty mugs in a bucket next to
the kitchen door before saying goodnight. When only a few barflies remained,
Shizuka poked her head through the door, carrying a small basket of rolls to
place on the counter. Marina leaned down to kiss the rabbit on the forehead.

"How have our bunnies been doing?" Victor asked at length.

Shizuka dropped a pair of thin gloves into a bin. "Keeping busy," was all she
said before taking one of the small, flaky rolls. The leopard raised an eyebrow.

"You've been in meetings all day, she's been back there all day," Marina
offered, taking a roll for herself. "Are we bursting with baked goods again,
*liebling Karotte?*"

"One, two, three, four batches of starter," Shizuka counted on her furred
fingers, "plus two or three dozen loaves, I lost count around thirty. Rachel
made it halfway through mixing some cookies before they got too thick for her."

"Keeping busy," Marina wrapped an arm around her girlfriend's head for another
kiss. "Are you willing to stay for what I am sure is bad news?" She glanced at
the snow leopard in the middle of biting his own roll.

Victor finished swallowing awkwardly before answering. "Can't a man just stop to
visit his extended harem?" Marina rolled her eyes. "And I wouldn't say it's
*bad* news. It's more... a complication. Fantastic bun by the way, bun." Shizuka
smiled and vanished behind the swinging door, returning a moment later after
turning out the kitchen lights. Trace positioned herself between the group and
the last occupied table in the tavern. Marina reached for a third glass and
poured Shizuka a Foxfire.

"So," Victor began, his voice low, "like I said, our branch of Softpaws still
has pull with Union, but not as much as we used to. Shareholders are pushing for
them to break off entirely, let Softpaws stand on its own. Cadey and I met with
Maarten today to make sure we kept the red phone, especially since we've made a
name for ourselves with your holy elixir and Zack's coffee. For now, Furhaven is
still a semi-autonomous arm of Softpaws."

Shizuka's brow furrowed, nose twitching. "But..."

"But," the leopard continued, "it's unlikely we'll get to stay that way after
the elections. Washington may be true blue on average, but not out here. There's
rumors that the district rep wants to say we're an illegal commune."

"What does that mean?" Marina asked.

"You heard what happened in Michigan?" The girls nodded. A similar
Softpaws-funded community near Detroit had been suddenly dismantled a few months
earlier. One refugee was now working the Pawsitively Everything general store
with the Netrons. "State condemned the buildings, rushed an eminent domain case,
and trespassed anyone who survived rounds one and two. Humanists took care of
round three. Maarten thinks the same happened with that group out of Kansas,
only they skipped to round three and let the mob sort it out."

Marina growled softly. "This all the plan behind triple-A?"

Victor massaged his temples. "It's possible. Technically, the only property
Nicole owns outright is the Lodge and, what, the surrounding kilometer? Gateway
is UAC land, and the rest of our valley is Softpaws. If Union got pressured hard
enough by state to back out, we'd lose our supply chain, and then the county
would swoop in to condemn the village for habitability and safety."

"And then the mob," Shizuka whispered, shaking. Marina pulled the bunny into a
hug.

"One would hope not," said Victor, finishing the roll. "Break us up, yes, but
there's no chance they could get away with siccing the humanists on us without
the whole Sound going up in a riot." The rabbit nodded. "One does not simply
interfere with Our Lady of Anthro Coffee."

"You said that you didn't have *bad* news, Victor?" Marina prodded, rubbing
Shizuka's shoulder.

Fernandes blinked. "Ah right. So, the simplest way to render us immune to those
sort of shenanigans is to consolidate our property ownership. Buy out UAC and
Softpaws, and put a real stake on the land."

Marina giggled. "*Und die Arbeiter* shall unite under the sickle and paw."

"You joke but you aren't far off, Comrade Foxy," Victor chuckled. "We floated
the idea of buying the land under everyone's buildings, flood the books with
individual land owners that would make a one-stop 'no village for you' attempt
too much of a hassle. Unfortunately, reality ensues, and Maarten told us even
with Union Aero's unholy legal department on our side, it would just open us up
to a bunch of other attack vectors." He took another roll and studied it. "No,
what we're proposing is taking Furhaven legit. Form an actual town."

Shizuka tilted her head. "And that's the *less* difficult way? We don't know
anything about actual governing."

Victor pointed with the roll. "That's the beauty of it. As long as we have *a*
form of government we can put on paper, then we make a legal entity for the town
that can own property. Quick rounds of negotiating with UAC and Softpaws for the
rights and *bam*, we own all the land we built on and everything in between."

Marina stroked her chin and muzzle. "What then for our people? Does everyone
then buy *their* land from this new town thing?"

"Cadey's working on that. Her idea is go all red, Furhaven owns everything and
everyone legally works for the town. Nothing would change about how we do
things, just the paper. I know how much you two prefer only fleecing humans for
actual money. We would have to set up some form of elections for a town council,
but all of that is left to us to lay out." Victor chomped the roll with a
contented sigh.

"And what of triple-A?" asked Marina.

Victor frowned. "If that atrocity makes it all the way through, then at least
we'll have our *own* government to buffer the darkest changes. Let us drink to
that *not* being necessary."

The three raised their glasses in toast and swiftly emptied them..

While Shizuka set to collecting the drinkware, Marina returned the bottle of
Foxfire to the locked cupboard and motioned to Trace. The last table of three
staggered to their feet, shaking the fog from their heads. Each hugged their
four-foot-tall bouncer, and thanked the fox for her hospitality before heading
out the door. Trace waved to the group, then skipped up the stairs to the inn.
Victor stretched, purring, and took to his feet.

"Anyway, I just wanted to give you ladies the heads-up," he said. "Hopefully,
we'll have something together before the elections. We might even be able to
hold an election of our own. That should let everyone sleep a little easier," he
added, ruffling Shizuka's ears.

"You will keep us in the loop, *ja?*"

"Of course. If we need another voice from the early days, you're my first call."
Victor stretched again and yawned. "Now if you might excuse me, I should get
home. The girls can get antsy when I'm here."

The three embraced, and the snow leopard exited the tavern. With the hall empty,
Marina turned down the lights, and escorted her bunny girlfriend upstairs.

* * * * *

*Tensions were high on Capitol Hill this week, as crowds of anthros and humans
clashed over the Senate's continued delay of the Anthro Affirmation Act, which
passed the House of Representatives two months ago.*

*The controversial bill, focused on expanding state identification laws to
accommodate anthropic diversity, has become a central issue in the campaigns.
Supporters of the bill say it's a necessary measure to keep anthropic
individuals from falling through the cracks, but opponents claim it is a
perversion of the original bill, and the start of a slippery slope to revoke
anthro rights.*

*With Election Night just two weeks away, all eyes are on Congress to come to an
agreement in time. For CNN, I'm Garland Sawyer, in Washington.*

* * * * *

Winter fell upon Furhaven once again, slathering a white coating over every
exposed surface it could find. The muffled sound of a departing train cut
through the silence of the valley. In the late evening, under a blanket of
stars, warm light sprayed across the frozen lakeshore from the Lodge, lighting
the three figures wading their way through the dense snow.

Inside the great room of the Lodge, the makeshift government of Furhaven had
assembled. The several anthros and one human were spread out between the huge
couch, the galley kitchen, and staring nervously out the window at the lake.
Shizuka the rabbit was first to hear the keys in the front door, and turned from
the view to alert the others. A moment later, the heavy front doors swung open,
allowing the visitors inside.

Maarten van Holstruk lowered his hood first, shaking and stomping to clear the
snow from his boots. The pine marten had been the chief of Union Aerospace when
the anthropic shift broke out, earning him the dubious honor of being known as
patient zero. A sharply dressed human removed an overcoat behind him, presumably
one of the many Softpaws lawyers. Lastly, Victor Fernandes sluffed off his own
snow-flecked jacket. The three added their gear to the already-stuffed rack of
coats, then joined the anthros in the great room. All three wore somber faces.

"So on a scale of one to ten, how screwed are we?" Nicole Brennan, the only
other human in the room, had broken her patience first.

Maarten took up a chair near the fireplace and couch and sighed deeply. "Seven.
I'm not going to lie, folks, we've got an uphill battle."

"It's not the end of the world, but you can see it from here," added Victor,
taking a seat next to his wife, Cadance.

"They passed Anthro Affirmation, didn't they?" asked Shiny Netron from the
couch. Maarten nodded, and the calico cat hung his head. Marina the red fox
issued a stream of curses under her breath in the galley.

"And since Tannen gets four more years in office, it's going to be law," added
Cadance, a smooth-skinned dragon who had been one of the Furhaven founders.

From the galley counter, a wolf with golden fur spoke up. "But we still have
Softpaws. You'll keep fighting for us, right?"

"Absolutely, Miss Everfree," van Holstruk replied. "However, until someone is
provably injured by the law, there isn't much we can do to prevent it anymore."

Victor stretched backward over the couch. "Union Aero might be getting pressured
to cut them off, but we get to keep the best toys." The wolf relaxed her
shoulders.

Nicole cracked her knuckles and reached for a pad of paper on the coffee table.
"Lay it out for me. How bad are we talking?"

Holstruk leaned forward in his chair. "If you'll pardon my expression, Miss
Wolfe, Miss Everfree--" Jewel and Faith shared an uneasy glance, "it's a wolf in
sheep's clothing. While they pitch it as being the exact ID expansion we asked
for back in year two, it's really the greatest present they could give the
humanists. Instead of augmenting state licenses and leaving it to them to fit a
new standard, the feds are just going to make a new license."

Nicole looked up from taking notes. "I don't get it. How is that a present?"

"*Was hast du mit deinem Papieren gemacht?*" Marina called from the galley,
laying on the thickest accent she could manage. Nicole scratched her head.

Shizuka translated from the window. "She said, 'what have you done with your
papers?' *The Great Escape,*" she added to Jewel Wolfe sitting next to her.

"It's a collar," added Cadance, craning her neck to stare at the ceiling. "Show
your ID or be labeled an animal. That's all they've wanted to do from day one.
Animals don't need property rights or bank accounts."

Maarten leaned back in his chair. "And consider the timetable. The last I heard,
the states get just one year to complete registration. How well do you think
some place like Georgia will secure a database in that kind of time?"

The room fell quiet. Marina filled a glass for the golden-furred wolf at the
counter. Shizuka had returned to staring blankly out the window, joined by the
arctic wolf, Jewel. For a time, the only sounds in the room were the slowly
dying embers of the fireplace.

Then Nicole spoke again. "So, how do we turn this ragtag council of ours into a
real town?"

"Oh yes!" van Holstruk perked up. "I was meaning to ask how *your* elections
went while we were away."

Marina, Faith, Nicole, Shiny, and Cadance all raised their hands and paws.
Cadance elbowed her husband in the arm. "Vic's on, too. They just named me
mayor, for some reason."

"Because we're all the founders," answered Nicole, "plus Victor. But he's
Cadey's husband, so, makes sense."

Maarten's aide raised an eyebrow. "And you can attest that it was a fair
election?"

"Everyone wrote in candidates on paper ballots," said Faith, sipping her drink.
"Jane ran it all out of Softpaws."

"If that's the case, then relax, Bob," van Holstruk said over his shoulder. "I
don't think Ms. Doe has a single dishonest bone in her body. If the village has
decided to keep the status quo, then let the status be quo. I take it, Ms.
Brennan, that you haven't yet written up the documents to formalize your
process?"

"That's what I was asking," she replied. "We've got an elected council -- that's
us -- and we appointed Cadey as mayor. Apart from that, we aren't politicians.
We're just the ones who got this place off the ground. How do we turn *us* into
a real life government?"

Bob the lawyer pulled an envelope from his jacket. "All you need are the papers.
For instance, this is an affidavit for exactly what you just described. We'll
have to revise it, of course, this is only a copy, but this will legitimize your
council. After you all sign on, we can begin drafting the bill that establishes
Furhaven as a true municipality."

"How long?" Cadance asked simply.

"A couple of months," answered Maarten, "at least. Bob and I have more wining
and dining to do with the state congress. We *should* have all the votes we need
to sail through the docket. Obviously, I'll keep you all informed."

Marina crossed her arms on the counter. "You know, *Herr* van Holstruk, I am
surprised *you* were not elected for our council. Surely our residents know you
almost as well as we do."

"Save that sentiment for your next election, Ms. Hasenkamp," he laughed. "I'm
more use to you out there than I would be here." The fox raised her hands in
defeat.

A sigh of relief washed over the collected anthros.

* * * * *

*Good morning. From NBC News in Seattle, I'm Tony Hawthorn.*

*The Washington Department of Social and Health Services announced today that it
is launching a new licensing system for anthros, to comply with the federal
government's Anthro Identification standard passed last year. It is the first
state to do so, thanks in large part to the Union Aerospace Corporation's
efforts in developing the system. The UAC, which owned the former genetic
research company responsible for releasing anthropic shift, said it is committed
to a smooth and secure transition for non-human citizens.*

*"Our research into pushing the limits of the human body led us not only to the
stars, but to an exciting explosion in biodiversity here on Earth. While our
astronauts are discovering new ways to live in space, modified humans on Earth
are advancing our understanding of genetic expression in ways we never thought
possible. We at the UAC wish to atone for our mistake of altering the lives and
bodies of humans outside of our research, and so commit ourselves to the
continued welfare of that community."*

*Registration is scheduled to begin in early March.*

* * * * *


