---
layout: post
published: true
title: Kleine Karotte
categories:
  - confursion
tags:
  - vignettes
  - furry
---

**...seven months after first infection...**

A thin fog drifts lazily up from my nose, lingering for only a moment before the
chill sweeps it away. My ears promptly lop tight against my back, regretting
their foolish decision to stand up to listen. They would only be disappointed
anyway. Birds aren't singing today, they're under shelter tending to their
young. No leaves to rustle, nor rain to hush me into serenity. There isn't much
life on the sidewalks at all, only a handful of walkers, and the occasional
stare in my direction. The fur on my neck bristles, my muscles tense. Though I
command my body to keep walking normally, the instincts are asserting their
dominance. They know what happens when I get too comfortable. Don't look, but
don't shrink. If they think you're just a scared little bunny, they'll treat you
like one.

Hunt you like one.

<!--more-->

I pause at a crosswalk, my heart suddenly thrashing at my chest. It's been a
month since you left all that behind, Shizuka. The race riots haven't reached
the Pacific Northwest yet. You aren't the only anthro around, Seattle's too big
a city for that. Just because you haven't met more than a few doesn't mean
you're alone. These humans won't try anything in broad daylight. It will be
okay.

My breath catches as I cross the empty street. It doesn't feel okay. I briefly
avoid my reflection in a parked car, not wanting to think about how I stand
almost level with the roof. Another burst of wind slices through my body, my fur
blissfully ignoring its solemn duty to keep me warm. Fur can't insulate against
fear. Another passerby gives me a hurried glance. They know what's been
following anthros into the towns we flee to, what becomes of the Softpaws
clinics that pop up to help us. I will myself to walk faster.

One block, two blocks, a third passes by until I reach my destination. There on
the corner, tucked away off the main streets, lies a small pub. Windows and
brick out of the last century, a rooftop patio closed for the season. The
assortment of rainbow flags flying proud from the pole. And an arm encircling a
paw. This place is known on the local nets as a safe place for anthros like me,
when we have nowhere else to go. I brace against another biting gust of wind,
and tug on the door.

There's a fire going today, fresh pine by the scent. I hang my coat by the door
and wander to my usual table by the window, avoiding the glance of the handful
of humans already here. Two men at the bar, one over there, three on the wall,
one more at a table. The owner is behind the bar, he nods and smiles in my
direction. I don't see anyone else, though, and for an instant I feel defeated.
He fills two glasses with something orange and frothy, then taps on the corner
of the wall.

There she is. A red vixen pokes her head through the kitchen curtains, then
steps through with a smile. My ears perk, missing what she says to her boss, but
catching the gentle clink of glass, the swish of her dress billowing out around
her, tail wrapped around to keep it from getting away, the almost silent steps
as she flows towards my table. Marina is her name. Marina Hasenkamp. A red fox
anthro who shifted months before I even started sprouting fur. The woman who's
made me feel a little at home in this city by the sea. She sets the glasses
down, and glides into the bench across from me.

It's our third date.

She undoes a ribbon behind her head, letting her sandy hair collapse, red ears
poking straight up from the mess. My eyes drift down to the braided bracelets on
her wrists, each more colorful than the last. To the white blouse puffing out
from behind the blue corset, draping over her slender, furry arms. To her green
eyes, framed so perfectly by her muzzle, infinite depths I could just fall into
and never come back. Her giggle brings me back. She always lets me stare a
little.

"How is *meine kleine Karotte* tonight?" she finally says, pushing a glass
across the table. My little carrot. She started calling me that a couple weeks
ago, when we agreed our frequent meetings were more romantic than friendly.

"I'm --" I pause, considering the bubbles in my carrot cocktail, "I'm okay, I
guess. How about you?"

Marina's eyes shift from calm to concern. "What's wrong?"

Flashes of memory jockey for position. The anti-anthro rally successfully
gathering thousands in my city. The anthropic shift becoming a powderkeg in the
elections. Meeting a new friend on the train. My clinic bombed the day after I
was told I'd finished transforming. The unending news cycles flashing pictures
of--

"Shizuka." Her hands are clasped around mine. "What's wrong?"

"It's nothing," I start to say, "just my nerves, that's all." She isn't
convinced, her eyes are cataloguing every anxious tic my body is capable of
betraying me with. "I'm worried I might lose my job again."

Concern to wide-eyed interest. "Did something happen?"

"I heard on the news they busted some guy who planned to attack a clinic. Guns,
bombs, the whole bit." I take a long sip from my drink. "It reminded me of --
home."

"Of your friend?" I nod slowly. Marina shuffles over in the corner bench and
puts her arm around my shoulder, her other hand still holding mine. My breath
shudders on its way out, and I melt slightly into her embrace. "I'm sorry,
sweetheart. Mario's had the TV off all week, I didn't know."

She drinks quickly from her glass, then takes up my hand again.

"I'm hearing people talk at work, too," I say to my drink, "how they would
rather I didn't work there so they don't get hit next."

"They didn't!" Marina yelps, causing one of the tables to look our way. I
absently follow a string of bubbles around my glass. "Sorry guys! How could they
say that, honey? You're a tech company not a Softpaws."

The bubbles are devouring their neighbors.

"That's what they said last time, too." My shoulders spasm. Marina holds me
tighter, her hand delicately running up and down my arm. "I'm afraid they can't
help me this time."

The unending news cycle flashing pictures of angry crowds screaming about
hunting the animal people. Schools locked down by threats against children of
shifted parents. My company promising they would stand by me no matter what.
Businesses receiving ultimatums. Raids exposing lists of anthros under target.
My boss telling me one day his wife was shifting, and she and I were named. My
last day at work, a staff meeting to safely get me away from the city. The best
they could do. The news on the train as I fled of a tech company on fire.

A quiet drone lulls me back to reality. I realize I'm swaying, a gentle tune
vibrating in my ears. Marina is humming as she brings me close, tail fully
around my waist to draw me back. A sniffle escapes me.

"I'm sorry. I don't want to ruin this," I say.

Marina shushes me, slowly petting my head behind my ears. "Little *Karotte*, you
could not ruin this. We didn't ask to be furry. We became who we were meant to
be. You wouldn't go back would you?" I shake my head and hug tight. "Me either.
I bet for all the times that poor head of yours goes into prey mode, there are
just as many times you're happier as you are. You heard me all the way across
the park when we met, remember?" 

"You said--," sniffle, "you were on the phone with someone and you said
something."

Marina giggles. "I said, 'I just saw the cutest rabbit girl again.' And then,
'oh crap I think she heard me!'" She nuzzles my cheek, nose wet. "And I'm still
seeing her a month later. I made it through losing my home to humanist nonsense,
I won't let it happen to you, too."

I can't say anything.

"Have you heard about a place called Furhaven?" she says quietly. I nod.
Softpaws was giving out grants to anthro groups willing to start sanctuary
towns. Rumors were circulating lately that one wasn't too far from Seattle. My
eyes widen.

"It's supposed to be one of those communes," I whisper, "but don't you have to
know someone to get in?"

My ears perk as it hits me. I turn around to see the warmest grin I've ever seen
on this fox's face.

"You aren't--"

Marina giggles again, tickling my heart. "I helped start it. About.. three
months ago? Me and Cadey and these two guys from Michigan who got stuck at some
convention, a couple others online. Someone had a cabin out in the Cascades and
right around when I got kicked off the lease they offered it to all of us. Next
month we got offered a Softpaws grant by Mister Holstruk himself, if you can
even believe it!"

Maarten van Holstruk. Chief Executive Officer of the largest private space
company, Union Aerospace. *Patient zero*.

"So right now we're on the lookout for people that can help us grow. Cause yeah
the Softpaws deal is great, but we really want to make it a safe place for
people like you and me."

My heart skips a beat, doubles back, and drops to the ground.

"So our meetings..." I start.

"Were partly scouting, yes. But," she straightens me up, "I mean what I say,
sweetheart. You are the most beautiful bunny I've had the pleasure of falling in
love with." My heart carries on stumbling excitedly through its beats, the pulse
speeding up. Is this real?

"Is this real?" my voice decides to squeak out. Traitor. "Marina, is this real?"

She kisses me square on the lips.

The other tables are probably staring. I'm probably in danger by now, no matter
what the flags outside say. But it doesn't matter. I'm falling into those eyes.

"I will not let you lose what I had to. If I offered to bring you into our
little village, what would you say?" There's a sliver of a smirk in her mouth.

Somehow I manage to croak out a yes before collapsing into her chest. The part
of me still stubbornly monitoring for danger reports someone just clapped, and
someone else has let out a proud shout from across the pub.

We sit there a little longer, finishing our drinks, the carrot cocktail washing
down my worry. Marina stands up and calls out to the owner, who stands among
what I suddenly realize is a room full of beaming faces. How long have they
planned this?

"Taking one for the road, boys. I'll be back next week, don't worry."

She looks down at me and holds out her hand. If I were still able to blush, I'm
sure I would be as red as her fur by now.

"*Lass uns nach Hause gehen, meine liebste kleine Karotte.*"
