---
layout: post
published: false
title: First Dive
categories:
  - aethernet
tags:
  - story
  - confursion-adjacent
---

The chamber door sealed closed with a gentle hiss, muting the noise of the
machines outside. In here, Leo could only hear the chorus of voices quietly wash
over him from the intercom, each relaying some technical errata or other. He
flexed his fingers against the seat. It compressed slightly, like a rubber
sponge, but held him firmly reclined in the dark cylinder. Nanothin screens
blinked to life across the walls, illuminating the space in all manner of
metrics and telemetry and statuses Leo couldn't begin to process. As the series
of popup windows finished whatever task they were performing, a voice carried
over the background noise.

*"Pod three startup complete. Stand by for dive."*

*"Take a deep breath, Leo,"* came the familiar voice of Project Director Ashe
Langley. *"This next part will feel a little weird. Exhale all the way, and then
breathe normally. Don't try and hold it. That will only make it worse."*

<!--more-->

What did she mean don't hold his breath? Leo's train of thought was interrupted
by a monotone.

**DIVE SEQUENCE START. STAGE ONE ACQUISITION. ACTIVATE SCANNER...**

Somewhere below his feet, he heard a pump whir to life, and a distinctly wet
feeling crawl up his legs. He gasped. Why was the chamber flooding?!

*"Breathe out! Don't hold it!"* came the Director's voice again.

The liquid crested his head just as he emptied his lungs, causing his next
breath to bring with it a mouthful of.. it wasn't quite water. Much less dense.
And he could breathe it? A confused gasp escaped his throat.

*"You'll get used to it. Everyone hates the link connect fluid at first."*

Somehow, he didn't feel reassured, although his next few hesitant breaths tamped
down his adrenaline. A tingling sensation followed, all over his body. A forest
of popups carpeted the wall of telemetry before him. Leo could recognize a heart
rate, blood pressure readout, and a flashing graph indicating he should stop
breathing so unevenly. He heard an anonymous voice report his vitals looked
good.

*"I apologize that we weren't able to give you more training,"* said the
Director, *"but we're on a tight schedule. Believe me when I tell you it's only
hard the first time."*

Leo found his voice still worked through the liquid. "What do you mean 'hard'?"

The noncommittal noise that answered him caused the breathing graph to flash
insistently again. *"Try not to worry about it. Just keep breathing normally."*

*"Block allocation is complete. Stage one is all green, Director,"* announced
yet another staffer. Just how many people were involved in this, anyhow?

**STAGE TWO INTERCONNECT. CONSTRUCTING SHELL...**

The fluid not presently circulating through his lungs suddenly became dense and
heavy, as though Leo had instantly been enveloped in a bowl of gelatin. The
electrical massage across his body intensified. Honestly, it tickled, although
he was unable to react as any person would.

*"I'm showing a solid signal. Depth limit is holding steady at thirty percent,
vitals are still good."* Leo was starting to tire of the endless cast of unnamed
speakers.

A new window appeared on the screens, this one showing a wireframe model that
was unmistakably being built from the buzzing sensation moving up and down his
body. Paragraphs of data flew up another window nearby, tracking the progress of
the scan. A friendly blue pie chart in one corner appeared with one third
filled. Right before the back of his brain hit the panic button over his
immobility, the fluid in the dive pod relaxed its dense hold on his body.

*"Shell construction complete, signal good, depth good, vitals good. We're clear
through line six-two-one, Director. Awaiting your order."*

*"Very good,"* she replied. *"Okay, Leo, last minute notes. We'll be dropping
you right inside Gateway. Take a moment to get your bearings, and then just
follow the noise. I'll have more once you catch up with the girls. Understood?"*

Leo blinked, skimming the map that had materialized on the screen, and the ocean
of red dots funneling toward a pair of blue dots before disappearing.

"What happens if I get hit?" he asked.

"Your shell deresolves and you'll pop right back up,"* the Director answered.
*"It's not going to kill you, if that's what you're worrying about. Relax."* It
was, and he did. *"Ready to dive?"*

Leo took a deep breath, and then nodded. "Let's go."

**STAGE THREE TRANSMISSION. DIVE...**

* * * * *

The physical reality of the chair vanished, the screens with it, and Leo found
himself plummeting downward beyond what should have been the base of the pod.
The nanothin screens had likewise disappeared, their telemetry now etched into
the periphery of his vision. What had been a comfortably snug cylinder of link
connect liquid was now a swarm of gossamer strands of neon light, streaming
upwards past his freefall. He could hear the sound of wind, and as collections
of cubes joined the light in revealing his downward motion, they made gentle
whooshes as they passed. Strangely, he couldn't feel any air.

Leo tried waving his arms, rewarding him with the stunning sight that he was
missing a body entirely! He could look around, at least, and discovered a series
of bars and readouts fade into view as he glanced down. One helpfully marked
"health", another "energy". There in a corner, the pie chart indicating his
depth at thirty percent.

He laughed soundlessly as a plane of light approached from far below. Director
Langley should have simply told him that the dive was a video game on steroids!
Leo wondered how far the metaphor went. Did he have an impossibly large arsenal
of weapons at his disposal? Was there an experience system? And what about--

The plane of light arrived before he could finish the thought, blinding all
other sensation.

* * * * *

Gravity was the first thing Leo understood as the light went away. His knees
buckled as they absorbed what should have been an absolutely flattening amount
of momentum, knocking the wind out of him. Breathing was the second feeling; he
needed to breathe again, and now there was no liquid filling his lungs. His
hearing followed, the impact of his arrival announced by a loud thud, as though
a pane of glass had just survived an improbably large brick.

Then returned his sight, and what a sight it was. Leo had landed in a wide
courtyard composed solely of matte, blue surfaces, edged in blue light. Right
out of a movie, he mused. Several plain gaps in the walls led off in all
directions. Leo looked up, and his jaw dropped. There was no ceiling. "Galaxy"
seemed like the only fitting word for the view, only thin beams seemed to
connect the nearest "stars" he could see, and they weren't clumped together like
the Milky Way. He then gazed down, finding his body had received a similar
treatment as the courtyard. Every fold in his clothes was highlighted in pale
green, and the pattern continued down his arms to his hands. His very glowy and
blocky hands. A grin and a chuckle drew across his face.

"Couldn't we afford more polygons?" he wondered aloud.

*"Har har,"* came the Director's voice from somewhere near his left temple. *"If
you wanted a beach body, you could have just asked to stay in the chair for
another hour."* Leo dialed back his smile a touch. *"You're a couple sectors
south of the port. Get moving."*

Red light erupted from beyond one of the exits, which a label in his vision
declared as north. A moment later, the sound of an explosion reverberated
through the courtyard. Two female voices spoke from his other ear.

*"Yow! Splash ten on that one!"*

*"Damn it, Foxy, splash is right! You knocked out two of my gunners!"*

*"Oops. Sorry, princess."*

Leo clambered over the blocky terrain toward the commmotion.

* * * * *

After covering what felt like half a kilometer without the expected protest from
his body, Leo came upon the site of the ensuing battle. In the distance, one of
the threads connecting the overhead stars was attached to the ground, a solid
blinding pillar surrounded by various spires and cubes seeming to keep it
focused. A path of mismatched cubes meandered between it and his vantage point.
Sprays of tiny red blocks painted the strange landscape, drawing his attention
to the foreground.

Here, atop either end of a wide barricade across the path, two humanoid figures
were waging war with waves of red animals bounding down the path. On second
glance, Leo decided calling them animals was rather generous. They resembled a
collection of triangles roughly assembled into animal shape, with no consistency
in number of limbs, tails, or even heads. Scattered around the area were a
number of purple turrets, blasting equally purple lasers into the attacking
beasts.

On the right side of the battlements, the orange-rimmed figure was occasionally
firing a sniper rifle into the fray, causing a tremendous, and plainly
spherical, burst of light to cascade through a group of the animals. Leo could
hear her excited laughs both from his position and over the radio. On the other
side, a blue figure was clearly floating in a lotus position, rapidly tapping at
a number of equally floating screens.

*"About time,"* she said, her voice taut. *"You, get your disc out and start
helping Foxy. Director, he's here."* Her head snapped toward one of the many
screens, in time with one of the purple turrets slicing a solid beam through the
crowd.

*"Understood,"* Langley replied from nowhere. *"Leo, there's a disc on your back
that you can think of as a Frisbee of Death. You'll know what to do with it."*

Leo climbed atop the barricade and reached behind his head, finding the edge of
the disc. As he pulled it off his back, a surge of memories he didn't know he
had flooded through his arm. The plain surface of the object burst to life with
a mosaic of shapes, and edged itself in a razor sharp glow. Without thinking, he
flung it at the nearest creature. It smashed through the patchwork of polygons,
reducing it to a pile of red cubic debris, before bouncing off the ground and
arcing back towards his hand. He caught it on instinct. Leo couldn't help but
grin at the ease and absurdity of the power he'd just been given.

"Hey Mikey, I think he likes it!" the other girl laughed. "Get a combo!" She
plastered another cluster of the beasts with an explosion. Leo flicked his
fingers as he threw the disc again, causing it to curve through three of the
things. The girl cheered.

*"He's good,"* said the other. *"Do we have a fix on the process they hacked
yet?"*

*"Almost,"* the Director responded. *"We narrowed it down to two, and under the
circumstances, kill both."* The girl uncrossed her legs and returned to the
floor. *"Handle four-eight-two-two and two-three. Go get 'em."*

*"On it,"* said the blue girl to his left, swiping screens closed. *"Leo, was
it? Keep the stragglers away from the wall."* She gestured at something near the
top of her vision, and several of the turrets collapsed into wire frames.
*"Mari, I'm going in. Watch my back."*

"Always, my lady!" Mari shouted, picking off another group of animals, then
crossing the platform to join Leo in the middle. "I get the far ones, you get
the near ones, and if you miss just yell, 'kay?"

He nodded, pausing to realize her orange glow had been hiding the fact that she
was clearly a human-sized fox, in much more detail than himself. She smirked as
he hastily averted his stare. The other girl finished closing her array of
windows, now assembling a long, thin tuning fork hovering before her. As the
faces settled into place, she decisively grabbed the lance and leapt off the
wall into a run. Leo could have sworn he saw rabbit ears trailing behind her,
and decided it was quite likely.

Between Leo's improving disc aim, Mari's sniping, and the two turrets left in
front of the wall, none of the red creatures managed to get close to the
advancing lancer. Before too long, Leo couldn't make out her blue outline
against the edges of the cube terrain. The fox clearly could, continuing to
blossom flashes of light that blew red cubes everywhere.

*"I'm starting the probe,"* he heard. *"Give me one minute each."*

* * * * *

Lightning began to crackle out from the base of the pillar to the stars. Leo
looked up and thought he spotted a hint of red far, far above the ground.

"Heads up, princess," Mari said after following his gaze. "I spy with my little
eye something that starts with 'F'." The princess swore, something also starting
with an "F". The orange fox arched her back to aim up at the disturbance, firing
two shots that each missed. "No joy," she added.

*"Director,"* said the princess, *"permission to offline Gateway. There's
something big coming down the pipe."*

A pause. *"Permission granted. Be careful, Shizuka."*

*"Naturlich. Foxy, give me thirty seconds and then send the biggest bang you've
got at the port."*

Mari whooped, fiddling with a panel on the side of her rifle, then crouching
down to aim. "Bit basher rounds loaded, call the shot."

The red blur continued descending toward the ground. It was right on top of the
tallest spire when Leo heard the princess Shizuka yell *"Fire!"* The fox
squeezed her trigger. A deafening boom resounded from the end of the barrel, and
the round dragged shards of glass behind it as it screamed towards the base of
the pillar of light. The barricade rattled under the recoil, shattered cracks
splaying out from the rifle supports.

Seconds passed with excruciating laziness. A stream of curses and exclamations
filled the radio a moment before the horizon was consumed in a glittering
maelstrom of jagged blue bits of terrain. The pillar streaked upward, a luminous
elastic band that had been stretched too far. The noise of the cataclysm reached
Leo's ears a second later, soon replaced by Mari's unsettling glee at the scene.

"Are you okay?" he said, feeling like the only sane person around. A distant
blue figure making its way down the path answered his question.

*"I'm fine, someone broke the port, that's all,"* came the reply. *"They won't
be coming from that direction for a while. Good job, Marina, you managed to miss
my sentries this time."*

Marina the fox bounced on her toes with a grin, gesturing in the air to dismiss
her sniper rifle. "Welcome to the Aethernet, new guy," she said. "We'll give you
the guided tour later." Leo shook his head in confusion and returned the disc to
his back.

*"Mission accomplished, Director,"* Shizuka added, *"sorry about the mess."*

Director Langley's voice was carefully measured, as though Leo could hear the
contorted pose she was making. *"It's fine, Shizuka. Better to burn it than get
any of you hurt. Programs can be replaced, users can't."*

"Damn straight!" Marina added.

*"We've got your telemetry, Shizuka,"* the Director continued. *"We don't know
yet what came down the link. It didn't make it all the way through before the
bit basher got it. We'll analyze what we can and debrief you at 1800."* All
three acknowledged.

Marina stood behind Leo and reached her arm out in front of him to point near
the top of his vision. "Local memory's up here. Tab over to the base routines
and run the 'surface' one." She patted his shoulder and skipped around to the
battlements to demonstrate. "See you upstairs!"

She waved her hand in the air above, poked at nothing, and abruptly froze in a
wink. Her non-colored body faded out, leaving a skeletal frame of glowing edges.
The frame collapsed inwards, then streaked away into the air. Below on the
plain, Leo witnessed Shizuka perform the same action, still walking, and
disappear in the same bizarre manner. He turned his attention to the space above
his sight, played with cycling through the tabs of memory, subroutines, and base
routines, and finally poked at the ghostly "surface" button.

The plane of light returned, catapulting him upwards through the formless limbo
of neon strands and random cubes, until the chair of the dive pod materialized
around him.
